slack.com => 161.76.76.78 => DNS


REpresentative State Transfer API:

1. Stateless: which does not store any state.
2. Client(react) & the server(node) have to be 2 separate entities.
3. Uniformity: a uniform way of communicating with the server irrespective of the device.
4. Cacheable: where each response defines itself as Cacheable or non Cacheable.

POSTMAN

Released in 2009 by Ryan Dahl

Runtime Environment: An environment created by installing one or more tools so as we are able to write a program and are able to execute that program and view its output.

Comprises of 2 things: V8Engine(Google Chrome) + Libuv


Features of NodeJS:
1. Single Threaded:
2. Asynchronous:
3. Event Driven: events can also be user defined
#EventEmitter class
4. Open Source:
5. Performance:
6. Highly Scalable: APIs, create servers, Desktop Apps(with help of Electron)
7. NPM (Node Package Manager):


THREAD: A thread in Node.js is a separate execution context in a single process. It is a lightweight, independent unit of processing that can run in parallel with other threads within the same process. It resides within process memory and it has an execution pointer. It has a stack of its own but a shared heap of the process.



In Package.json: when a version is written like this: 6.24.1
In this 
6: major version
24: minor version
1: patch

~ : allows changes only in patch
^ : allows changes in patch as well as minor versions

Web Scraping: To scrape / scratch / get the contents from a webpage into our project. The content can be text / html / css / js.
Tools: Axios / Cheerio / Puppeteer

Syntax in cheerio is very similar to jQuery



HOW TO INSTALL MONGODB:
- Search "mongodb community server". Open first link and download Server.
- Install server with all the default settings. DO NOT CHANGE ANYTHING WHILE INSTALLING.
- Search "mongodb shell". Open first link and download shell.
- Extract downloaded zip. Cut the extracted folder and put it in "C" drive.
- Open mongo shell folder, go to bin. Copy the path from address bar and set it as an Environment variable.
- Open C->Program Files->mongodb->server->7.0-> go to bin. Copy the path from address bar and set it as an Environment variable.
- Create a folder "data" in "C".
- Inside folder data, create another folder "db".


TYPES OF MIDDLEWARES:
1. Application level middleware
2. Router-level middleware
3. Error handling middleware
4. Built in middleware
5. Third Party middleware